Packet Tracer - Modify and Monitor Environmental Controls in Packet Tracer

Objectives

Part 1: Explore Environmental Controls
Part 2: Edit Environment Elements

Background / Scenario
IoT devices frequently use sensors to monitor the physical environment, and actuators to act in response to the conditions that are detected in the environment. Packet Tracer includes an interface for modifying environmental factors to test and activate IoT devices.

In this activity, you will learn how to edit Packet Tracer environmental controls.

Instructions
Part 1: Explore Environmental Controls
Step 1: Observe the Environmental Controls interface
To view the current environment values, do the following:

a.     To open the Environments window, click Environment (Shift+E) on the far right of the Logical toolbar. The button displays a simulated 24-hour clock.
b.     Explore the many environmental elements in the Intercity location.
c.     Locate the Ambient Temperature element and notice that the temperature changes throughout the simulated 24-hour day period.
d.     Click Ambient Temperature to open the Ambient Temperature chart. If necessary, scroll to the top of the Environments window to see the temperature fluctuations over time.
e.     Explore the other environmental elements by clicking in the list and observing the charts over time. Notice the Hide Chart button, which you can click, if you wish to hide the chart.
f.      You will continue using the Environments window in Part 2. To keep it open and on top, scroll to the bottom of the window and click Always on Top.

Part 2: Edit Environmental Elements
Step 1: Change to environment edit mode.
With the Ambient Temperature chart open, click Edit next to the Intercity location.

Note: Do not click the Edit button next to the Current Time.

Step 2: Investigate the Ambient Temperature Keyframe Graph.
a.     Scroll down and click the Sunlight entry below the chart to hide the Sunlight element.
Note: You may need to expand the height of your Environments window to see all the elements.
b.     The environment Keyframe Graph tab for the ambient temperature shows degrees Celsius starting at a low of 0° at midnight and a high of 24° at midday. Notice the five small diamond handles at different times on the chart: 00:00, 06:00, 12:00, 18:00, and 23:59. Hovering your mouse over the small diamond handles reveals those times. These are keyframes.

Step 3: Change the ambient temperature for Intercity.
You can change the ambient temperature for the 24-hour day by clicking and dragging each keyframe to the desired temperature value. Alternatively, you can enter the value in the popup box and press Enter to change the value. To simulate a summer environment, make the following changes. Set the beginning and end temperatures to 20°, the 06:00 and 18:00 temperatures to 28° and the mid-day temperature to 37°.

Step 4: Observe changes in the environment.
a.     Click View button for the Intercity location. Note that the Ambient Temperature chart is now showing the pattern of temperature changes that you configured in the previous step.
b.     Look at the Ambient Temperature value in the table of environmental factors. Note that Packet Tracer interpolates between the key frame values to continuously vary the temperature. You should see the Ambient Temperature value vary from 20° to 37°.

Step 5: Close the Environments window and close Packet Tracer.
